{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset129 AppleSDGothicNeo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
@node Beginning a .emacs File, Text and Auto-fill, defcustom, Emacs Initialization\
@section Beginning a @file\{.emacs\} File\
@cindex @file\{.emacs\} file, beginning of\
\
When you start Emacs, it loads your @file\{.emacs\} file unless you tell\
it not to by specifying @samp\{-q\} on the command line.  (The\
@code\{emacs -q\} command gives you a plain, out-of-the-box Emacs.)\
\
A @file\{.emacs\} file contains Lisp expressions.  Often, these are no\
more than expressions to set values; sometimes they are function\
definitions.\
\
@xref\{Init File, , The Init File @file\{~/.emacs\}, emacs, The GNU Emacs\
Manual\}, for a short description of initialization files.\
\
This chapter goes over some of the same ground, but is a walk among\
extracts from a complete, long-used @file\{.emacs\} file---my own.\
\
The first part of the file consists of comments: reminders to myself.\
By now, of course, I remember these things, but when I started, I did\
not.\
\
@need 1200\
@smallexample\
@group\
;;;; Bob's .emacs file\
; Robert J. Chassell\
; 26 September 1985\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
Look at that date!  I started this file a long time ago.  I have been\
adding to it ever since.\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
; Each section in this file is introduced by a\
; line beginning with four semicolons; and each\
; entry is introduced by a line beginning with\
; three semicolons.\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
This describes the usual conventions for comments in Emacs Lisp.\
Everything on a line that follows a semicolon is a comment.  Two,\
three, and four semicolons are used as subsection and section markers.\
(@xref\{Comments, ,, elisp, The GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual\}, for\
more about comments.)\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
;;;; The Help Key\
; Control-h is the help key;\
; after typing control-h, type a letter to\
; indicate the subject about which you want help.\
; For an explanation of the help facility,\
; type control-h two times in a row.\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
Just remember: type @kbd\{C-h\} two times for help.\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
; To find out about any mode, type control-h m\
; while in that mode.  For example, to find out\
; about mail mode, enter mail mode and then type\
; control-h m.\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
`Mode help', as I call this, is very helpful.  Usually, it tells you\
all you need to know.\
\
Of course, you don't need to include comments like these in your\
@file\{.emacs\} file.  I included them in mine because I kept forgetting\
about Mode help or the conventions for comments---but I was able to\
remember to look here to remind myself.}