{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset129 AppleSDGothicNeo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
@need 1700\
@node Keybindings, Keymaps, Indent Tabs Mode, Emacs Initialization\
@section Some Keybindings\
\
Now for some personal keybindings:\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
;;; Compare windows\
(global-set-key "\\C-cw" 'compare-windows)\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
@findex compare-windows\
@code\{compare-windows\} is a nifty command that compares the text in\
your current window with text in the next window.  It makes the\
comparison by starting at point in each window, moving over text in\
each window as far as they match.  I use this command all the time.\
\
This also shows how to set a key globally, for all modes.\
\
@cindex Setting a key globally\
@cindex Global set key\
@cindex Key setting globally\
@findex global-set-key\
The command is @code\{global-set-key\}.  It is followed by the\
keybinding.  In a @file\{.emacs\} file, the keybinding is written as\
shown: @code\{\\C-c\} stands for `control-c', which means `press the\
control key and the @key\{c\} key at the same time'.  The @code\{w\} means\
`press the @key\{w\} key'.  The keybinding is surrounded by double\
quotation marks.  In documentation, you would write this as\
@w\{@kbd\{C-c w\}\}.  (If you were binding a @key\{META\} key, such as\
@kbd\{M-c\}, rather than a @key\{CTRL\} key, you would write\
@w\{@code\{\\M-c\}\} in your @file\{.emacs\} file.  @xref\{Init Rebinding, ,\
Rebinding Keys in Your Init File, emacs, The GNU Emacs Manual\}, for\
details.)\
\
The command invoked by the keys is @code\{compare-windows\}.  Note that\
@code\{compare-windows\} is preceded by a single quote; otherwise, Emacs\
would first try to evaluate the symbol to determine its value.\
\
These three things, the double quotation marks, the backslash before\
the @samp\{C\}, and the single quote mark are necessary parts of\
keybinding that I tend to forget.  Fortunately, I have come to\
remember that I should look at my existing @file\{.emacs\} file, and\
adapt what is there.\
\
As for the keybinding itself: @kbd\{C-c w\}.  This combines the prefix\
key, @kbd\{C-c\}, with a single character, in this case, @kbd\{w\}.  This\
set of keys, @kbd\{C-c\} followed by a single character, is strictly\
reserved for individuals' own use.  (I call these `own' keys, since\
these are for my own use.)  You should always be able to create such a\
keybinding for your own use without stomping on someone else's\
keybinding.  If you ever write an extension to Emacs, please avoid\
taking any of these keys for public use.  Create a key like @kbd\{C-c\
C-w\} instead.  Otherwise, we will run out of `own' keys.\
\
@need 1250\
Here is another keybinding, with a comment:\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
;;; Keybinding for `occur'\
; I use occur a lot, so let's bind it to a key:\
(global-set-key "\\C-co" 'occur)\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
@findex occur\
The @code\{occur\} command shows all the lines in the current buffer\
that contain a match for a regular expression.  Matching lines are\
shown in a buffer called @file\{*Occur*\}.  That buffer serves as a menu\
to jump to occurrences.\
\
@findex global-unset-key\
@cindex Unbinding key\
@cindex Key unbinding\
@need 1250\
Here is how to unbind a key, so it does not\
work:\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
;;; Unbind `C-x f'\
(global-unset-key "\\C-xf")\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
There is a reason for this unbinding: I found I inadvertently typed\
@w\{@kbd\{C-x f\}\} when I meant to type @kbd\{C-x C-f\}.  Rather than find a\
file, as I intended, I accidentally set the width for filled text,\
almost always to a width I did not want.  Since I hardly ever reset my\
default width, I simply unbound the key.\
\
@findex list-buffers, @r\{rebound\}\
@findex buffer-menu, @r\{bound to key\}\
@need 1250\
The following rebinds an existing key:\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
;;; Rebind `C-x C-b' for `buffer-menu'\
(global-set-key "\\C-x\\C-b" 'buffer-menu)\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
By default, @kbd\{C-x C-b\} runs the\
@code\{list-buffers\} command.  This command lists\
your buffers in @emph\{another\} window.  Since I\
almost always want to do something in that\
window, I prefer the  @code\{buffer-menu\}\
command, which not only lists the buffers,\
but moves point into that window.}