{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset129 AppleSDGothicNeo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
@node Autoload, Simple Extension, Loading Files, Emacs Initialization\
@section Autoloading\
@findex autoload\
\
Instead of installing a function by loading the file that contains it,\
or by evaluating the function definition, you can make the function\
available but not actually install it until it is first called.  This\
is called @dfn\{autoloading\}.\
\
When you execute an autoloaded function, Emacs automatically evaluates\
the file that contains the definition, and then calls the function.\
\
Emacs starts quicker with autoloaded functions, since their libraries\
are not loaded right away; but you need to wait a moment when you\
first use such a function, while its containing file is evaluated.\
\
Rarely used functions are frequently autoloaded.  The\
@file\{loaddefs.el\} library contains hundreds of autoloaded functions,\
from @code\{bookmark-set\} to @code\{wordstar-mode\}.  Of course, you may\
come to use a `rare' function frequently.  When you do, you should\
load that function's file with a @code\{load\} expression in your\
@file\{.emacs\} file.\
\
In my @file\{.emacs\} file, I load 14 libraries that contain functions\
that would otherwise be autoloaded.  (Actually, it would have been\
better to include these files in my `dumped' Emacs, but I forgot.\
@xref\{Building Emacs, , Building Emacs, elisp, The GNU Emacs Lisp\
Reference Manual\}, and the @file\{INSTALL\} file for more about\
dumping.)\
\
You may also want to include autoloaded expressions in your @file\{.emacs\}\
file.  @code\{autoload\} is a built-in function that takes up to five\
arguments, the final three of which are optional.  The first argument\
is the name of the function to be autoloaded; the second is the name\
of the file to be loaded.  The third argument is documentation for the\
function, and the fourth tells whether the function can be called\
interactively.  The fifth argument tells what type of\
object---@code\{autoload\} can handle a keymap or macro as well as a\
function (the default is a function).\
\
@need 800\
Here is a typical example:\
\
@smallexample\
@group\
(autoload 'html-helper-mode\
  "html-helper-mode" "Edit HTML documents" t)\
@end group\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
(@code\{html-helper-mode\} is an older alternative to @code\{html-mode\},\
which is a standard part of the distribution.)\
\
@noindent\
This expression autoloads the @code\{html-helper-mode\} function.  It\
takes it from the @file\{html-helper-mode.el\} file (or from the byte\
compiled version @file\{html-helper-mode.elc\}, if that exists.)  The\
file must be located in a directory specified by @code\{load-path\}.\
The documentation says that this is a mode to help you edit documents\
written in the HyperText Markup Language.  You can call this mode\
interactively by typing @kbd\{M-x html-helper-mode\}.  (You need to\
duplicate the function's regular documentation in the autoload\
expression because the regular function is not yet loaded, so its\
documentation is not available.)\
\
@xref\{Autoload, , Autoload, elisp, The GNU Emacs Lisp Reference\
Manual\}, for more information.}