{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset129 AppleSDGothicNeo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
@node Using set, Using setq, set & setq, set & setq\
@comment  node-name,  next,  previous,  up\
@subsection Using @code\{set\}\
@findex set\
\
To set the value of the symbol @code\{flowers\} to the list @code\{'(rose\
violet daisy buttercup)\}, evaluate the following expression by\
positioning the cursor after the expression and typing @kbd\{C-x C-e\}.\
\
@smallexample\
(set 'flowers '(rose violet daisy buttercup))\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
The list @code\{(rose violet daisy buttercup)\} will appear in the echo\
area.  This is what is @emph\{returned\} by the @code\{set\} function.  As a\
side effect, the symbol @code\{flowers\} is bound to the list; that is,\
the symbol @code\{flowers\}, which can be viewed as a variable, is given\
the list as its value.  (This process, by the way, illustrates how a\
side effect to the Lisp interpreter, setting the value, can be the\
primary effect that we humans are interested in.  This is because every\
Lisp function must return a value if it does not get an error, but it\
will only have a side effect if it is designed to have one.)\
\
After evaluating the @code\{set\} expression, you can evaluate the symbol\
@code\{flowers\} and it will return the value you just set.  Here is the\
symbol.  Place your cursor after it and type @kbd\{C-x C-e\}.\
\
@smallexample\
flowers\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
When you evaluate @code\{flowers\}, the list\
@code\{(rose violet daisy buttercup)\} appears in the echo area.\
\
Incidentally, if you evaluate @code\{'flowers\}, the variable with a quote\
in front of it, what you will see in the echo area is the symbol itself,\
@code\{flowers\}.  Here is the quoted symbol, so you can try this:\
\
@smallexample\
'flowers\
@end smallexample\
\
Note also, that when you use @code\{set\}, you need to quote both\
arguments to @code\{set\}, unless you want them evaluated.  Since we do\
not want either argument evaluated, neither the variable\
@code\{flowers\} nor the list @code\{(rose violet daisy buttercup)\}, both\
are quoted.  (When you use @code\{set\} without quoting its first\
argument, the first argument is evaluated before anything else is\
done.  If you did this and @code\{flowers\} did not have a value\
already, you would get an error message that the @samp\{Symbol's value\
as variable is void\}; on the other hand, if @code\{flowers\} did return\
a value after it was evaluated, the @code\{set\} would attempt to set\
the value that was returned.  There are situations where this is the\
right thing for the function to do; but such situations are rare.)}