{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset129 AppleSDGothicNeo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
@node etags, Regexp Review, forward-paragraph, Regexp Search\
@section Create Your Own @file\{TAGS\} File\
@findex etags\
@cindex @file\{TAGS\} file, create own\
\
Besides @kbd\{C-h f\} (@code\{describe-function\}), another way to see the\
source of a function is to type @kbd\{M-.\} (@code\{find-tag\}) and the\
name of the function when prompted for it.  This is a good habit to\
get into.  The @kbd\{M-.\} (@code\{find-tag\}) command takes you directly\
to the source for a function, variable, or node.  The function depends\
on tags tables to tell it where to go.\
\
If the @code\{find-tag\} function first asks you for the name of a\
@file\{TAGS\} table, give it the name of a @file\{TAGS\} file such as\
@file\{/usr/local/src/emacs/src/TAGS\}.  (The exact path to your\
@file\{TAGS\} file depends on how your copy of Emacs was installed.  I\
just told you the location that provides both my C and my Emacs Lisp\
sources.)\
\
You can also create your own @file\{TAGS\} file for directories that\
lack one.\
\
You often need to build and install tags tables yourself.  They are\
not built automatically.  A tags table is called a @file\{TAGS\} file;\
the name is in upper case letters.\
\
You can create a @file\{TAGS\} file by calling the @code\{etags\} program\
that comes as a part of the Emacs distribution.  Usually, @code\{etags\}\
is compiled and installed when Emacs is built.  (@code\{etags\} is not\
an Emacs Lisp function or a part of Emacs; it is a C program.)\
\
@need 1250\
To create a @file\{TAGS\} file, first switch to the directory in which\
you want to create the file.  In Emacs you can do this with the\
@kbd\{M-x cd\} command, or by visiting a file in the directory, or by\
listing the directory with @kbd\{C-x d\} (@code\{dired\}).  Then run the\
compile command, with @w\{@code\{etags *.el\}\} as the command to execute\
\
@smallexample\
M-x compile RET etags *.el RET\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
to create a @file\{TAGS\} file for Emacs Lisp.\
\
For example, if you have a large number of files in your\
@file\{~/emacs\} directory, as I do---I have 137 @file\{.el\} files in it,\
of which I load 12---you can create a @file\{TAGS\} file for the Emacs\
Lisp files in that directory.\
\
@need 1250\
The @code\{etags\} program takes all the usual shell `wildcards'.  For\
example, if you have two directories for which you want a single\
@file\{TAGS\} file, type @w\{@code\{etags *.el ../elisp/*.el\}\}, where\
@file\{../elisp/\} is the second directory:\
\
@smallexample\
M-x compile RET etags *.el ../elisp/*.el RET\
@end smallexample\
\
@need 1250\
Type\
\
@smallexample\
M-x compile RET etags --help RET\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
to see a list of the options accepted by @code\{etags\} as well as a\
list of supported languages.\
\
The @code\{etags\} program handles more than 20 languages, including\
Emacs Lisp, Common Lisp, Scheme, C, C++, Ada, Fortran, HTML, Java,\
LaTeX, Pascal, Perl, Postscript, Python, TeX, Texinfo, makefiles, and\
most assemblers.  The program has no switches for specifying the\
language; it recognizes the language in an input file according to its\
file name and contents.\
\
@file\{etags\} is very helpful when you are writing code yourself and\
want to refer back to functions you have already written.  Just run\
@code\{etags\} again at intervals as you write new functions, so they\
become part of the @file\{TAGS\} file.\
\
If you think an appropriate @file\{TAGS\} file already exists for what\
you want, but do not know where it is, you can use the @code\{locate\}\
program to attempt to find it.\
\
Type @w\{@kbd\{M-x locate @key\{RET\} TAGS @key\{RET\}\}\} and Emacs will list\
for you the full path names of all your @file\{TAGS\} files.  On my\
system, this command lists 34 @file\{TAGS\} files.  On the other hand, a\
`plain vanilla' system I recently installed did not contain any\
@file\{TAGS\} files.\
\
If the tags table you want has been created, you can use the @code\{M-x\
visit-tags-table\} command to specify it.  Otherwise, you will need to\
create the tag table yourself and then use @code\{M-x\
visit-tags-table\}.\
\
@subsubheading Building Tags in the Emacs sources\
@cindex Building Tags in the Emacs sources\
@cindex Tags in the Emacs sources\
@findex make tags\
\
The GNU Emacs sources come with a @file\{Makefile\} that contains a\
sophisticated @code\{etags\} command that creates, collects, and merges\
tags tables from all over the Emacs sources and puts the information\
into one @file\{TAGS\} file in the @file\{src/\} directory. (The\
@file\{src/\} directory is below the top level of your Emacs directory.)\
\
@need 1250\
To build this @file\{TAGS\} file, go to the top level of your Emacs\
source directory and run the compile command @code\{make tags\}:\
\
@smallexample\
M-x compile RET make tags RET\
@end smallexample\
\
@noindent\
(The @code\{make tags\} command works well with the GNU Emacs sources,\
as well as with some other source packages.)\
\
For more information, see @ref\{Tags, , Tag Tables, emacs, The GNU Emacs\
Manual\}.}